359 Firewall consists of a set of related programs‚ located at a network gateway server.  A firewall is a combination of hardware and software used toimplement a security policy governing the network traffic between two ormore networks.  Some of that traffic may be under the administrator’s control(e. g. ‚ organization’s networks) and some of which may be out of the systemadministrator’s control (e. g. ‚ the Internet). Firewalls determine whether to block or allow network traffic by lookingat TCP7IP packet headers to determine if these are in accordance with predetermined security policy.  However‚ a firewall does neither have the capabilityto recognize malicious code (Malware‚ Virus)‚ nor any means for preventingits transfer to a target system. A Firewall usually protects the resources of a private network from usersfrom other networks.  A network firewall commonly serves as a primary lineof defense against external threats to an organization’s computer systems‚networks‚ and critical information.  Firewalls can also be used to partition anorganization’s internal networks‚ reducing the risk from insider attacks. There are three types of firewalls:Pack Filter—filters the contents of the IP packet header‚ therefore‚ limited tothe source and destination address as well as the TCP/UDP port number.  Filterdoes not check content of message/data;Circuit Filter or Circuit Level Gateway—applies packet filtering but verifiesinformation based on TCP or UDP packet header information as well.  Hence‚it can make a better decision if the individual packets form part of a valid TCPsequence.  Creates a handshake‚ and once that takes place passes everythingthrough until the session is ended.  Still it has no knowledge of which user isrequesting access to services; andApplication Filter—uses proxies to apply filter rules based on the data contentand sometimes the user.  A dedicated program called a ‘proxy’ or ‘proxy server’is used to effect the application filter policy rules.  Commonly used applicationfilter is the web proxy.  It can be used to restrict the internal (or Intranet) webpages that are published out to the internet  .  
