317 Biometrics identification systems are based on the recognition of unique morphological characteristics of each individual‚ so that only the physical presence of the person will allow access to the system.  Numerous biometric parameters are available such as: facial‚ iris‚ fingerprints‚ hand and finger geometry‚ signature and voice recognition.  Although iris recognition has stronger security credentials‚ fingerprints are often preferred due to the maturity of the technology  .  As Table 4A outlines‚ Retina Scan‚ Iris Scan and Hand Geometry are most accurate and both‚ the False Rejection Rate (FRR) and the False Acceptance Rate (FAR) are quite low for these Authentication measures based on Biometrics.  In Table 4B other measures are outlined that can be used for Access Control.  Often a system may use a Magnetic Swipe Card and a Keypad Entry System to give an employee access to a restricted office area or a database.  Some of the time a system such as the ones outlined in Table 4B may also be combined with one of those described and explained in Table 4C.  Unfortunately‚ all the one’s in Table 4C do have‚ however‚ some severe weaknesses that limit their Reliability and Validity.  In particular the FRR and FAR may not be satisfactory.  For instance‚ during May 2002 a Japanese group of researchers reported that using fake fingerprints fashioned from gelatin were able to fool biometric fingerprint readers 80% of the time.  The researchers also devised a way to create fake fingerprints from fingerprints left on glass surfaces.  What is interesting is that the material needed to make this work‚ was purchased at a neighborhood store and cost less than Euro 11.  This attack is a classic replay (or forgery) attack.  Unfortunately‚ replays are not unique to fingerprints but are a fundamental Vulnerability of all Biometrics  .  The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) published a report during May 2002 about the inaccuracy of tests using facial recognition technology at the Palm Beach (FL) International Airport.  The technology failed to correctly identify faces more than half of the time.  The recognition rate went down when people wore glasses‚ turned their heads‚ or were moving.  
