301 In  personal  computers  a  chipset  is  a  group  of  integrated circuits that together perform a particular function.  System purchasers  generally  think  in  terms  of  the  processor  itself (such  as  a  Pentium  III   Pentium  IV   or  competitive  chips from AmD  or  Cyrix).   However  they  are  really  buying  a system  chipset  that  includes  the  microprocessor  itself    and often a memory cache (which may be part of the microprocessor or a separate chip—see cache) as  well  as  the  chips  that  control  the  memory  bus  (which connects  the  processor  to  the  main  memory  on  the  moth-erboard—see bus. )  The  overall  performance  of  the  system depends not just on the processor’s architecture (including data  width   instruction  set   and  use  of  instruction  pipe-lines)  but  also  on  the  type  and  size  of  the  cache  memory  the memory  bus  (RDRAm  or  “Rambus”  and  SDRAm)  and the  speed  with  which  the  processor  can  move  data  to  and from memory. In addition to the system chipset  other chipsets on the motherboard are used to support functions such as graphics (the AgP   or  Advanced graphics  Port   for  example)   drive connection  (EIDE  controller)   communication  with  exter-nal devices    and connections to expansion cards (the PCI bus). At  the  end  of  the  1990s   the  PC  marketplace  had  chip-sets  based  on  two  competing  architectures.   Intel   which originally  developed  an  architecture  called  Socket  7   has switched  to  the  more  complex  Slot-1  architecture   which is  most  effective  for  multiprocessor  operation  but  offers the advantage of including a separate bus for accessing the cac  he memory.  meanwhile   Intel’s  main  competitor   AmD  has  enhanced  the  Socket  7  into  “Super  Socket  7”  and  is offering  faster  bus  speeds.   On  the  horizon  may  be  com-pletely  new  architecture.   In  choosing  a  system   consumers are locked into their choice because the microprocessor pin sockets used for each chipset architecture are different.  
