308 pronounced AL-go-rith-um is a procedure or formula for solving a problem.  The word derives from the name of the mathematician  Mohammed ibn-Musa al-Khwarizmi  who was part of the royal court in Baghdad and who lived from about 780 to 850.  Al-Khwarizmi’s work is the likely source for the word algebra as well.  Algorithm is any well-defined procedure (does not have to be computa tional) that takes some value or set of values as input and produces some value or set of values as output.  It is a technique that comes with a guarantee.  The technique for ratio nal function integration is an algorithm because it always produces the an swer  without exception.  Differentiation is an algorithm—given an elemen tary function  you can always find its derivative.  Algorithms can be fast or slow  but the important thing is the guarantee.  In some sense  an algorithm is a ‘predictable heuristic ’ whereby one cannot tell if a heuristic will work  before one tries it  but one knows in advance what the output of an algorithm will be.  In computing terms  algorithm is a sequence of computational steps that transform the input to the output.  A computer program can be viewed as an elaborate algorithm.  In mathe matics and computer science  an algorithm usually means a small procedure that solves a recurrent problem.  In this context the term Virus Algorithm means a set of operations or a procedure designed to create a virus problem.  In the context of Digital Signatures or Encryption  the algorithm describes how the signature or text is encrypted using mathematical formulas Another example is the Condensation algorithm (Conditional Density Propagation) that allows quite general representations of probability.  The simplicity of the Condensation algorithm also allows the use of non-linear motion models more complex than those commonly used in Kalman filters.  Using the statistical technique of importance sampling it is possible to build a Condensation tracker which runs in real time tracking a dancer or a hand as they move 
