300 An  applet  is  a  small  program  that  uses  the  resources  of  a larger program and usually provides customization or addi-tional  features.   The  term  first  appeared  in  the  early  1990s in  connection  with  Apple’s  AppleScript  scripting  language for the macintosh operating system.  Today Java applets rep-resent the most widespread use of this idea in Web develop-ment  . Java  applets  are  compiled  to  an  intermediate  repre-sentation  called  bytecode   and  generally  are  run  in  a  Web browser   .   Applets  thus  represent  one of  several  alternatives  for  interacting  with  users  of  Web pages  beyond  what  can  be  accomplished  using  simple  text markup   . An  applet  can  be  invoked  by  inserting  a  reference  to its  program  code  in  the  text  of  the  Web  page   using  the HTmL applet element or the now-preferred object element.  Although  the  distinction  between  applets  and  scripting code  (such  as  in  PHP)  is  somewhat  vague   applets  usually run  in  their  own  window  or  otherwise  provide  their  own interface   while  scripting  code  is  generally  used  to  tailor the  behavior  of  separately  created  objects.   Applets  are  also rather  like  plug-ins   but  the  latter  are  generally  used  to provide  a  particular  capability  (such  as  the  ability  to  read or  play  a  particular  kind  of  media  file)   and  have  a  stan-dardized facility for their installation and management  . Some  common  uses  for  applets  include  animations  of scientific or programming concepts for Web pages support-ing  class  curricula  and  for  games  designed  to  be  played using  Web  browsers.   Animation  tools  such  as  Flash  and Shockwave are often used for creating graphic applets. To  prevent  badly  or  maliciously  written  applets  from affecting  user  files   applets  such  as  Java  applets  are  gen-erally  run  within  a  restricted  or  “sandbox”  environment where  for example  they are not allowed to write or change files on disk.   
