299 The  arithmetic  logic  unit  is  the  part  of  a  computer  system that actually performs calculations and logical comparisons on data.  It is part of the central processing unit (CPU)  and in  practice  there  may  be  separate  and  multiple  arithmetic and logic units  . The ALU works by first retrieving a code that represents the operation to be performed (such as ADD).  The code also specifies the location from which the data is to be retrieved and  to  which  the  results  of  the  operation  are  to  be  stored.  (For example  addition of the data from memory to a num-ber  already  stored  in  a  special  accumulator  register  within the CPU  with the result to be stored back into the accumu-lator. )  The  operation  code  can  also  include  a  specification of the format of the data to be used (such as fixed or float-ing-point  numbers)—the  operation  and  format  are  often combined into the same code. In  addition  to  arithmetic  operations   the  ALU  can  also carry  out  logical  comparisons   such  as  bitwise  operations that compare corresponding bits in two data words  corresponding to Boolean operators such as AND  OR  and xOR  . The  data  or  operand  specified  in  the  operation  code  is retrieved as words of memory that represent numeric data  or  indirectly   character  data   .  Once the operation is per-formed   the  result  is  stored  (typically  in  a  register  in  the CPU).   Special  codes  are  also  stored  in  registers  to  indicate characteristics  of  the  result  (such  as  whether  it  is  positive  negative   or  zero).   Other  special  conditions  called  excep-tions  indicate  a  problem  with  the  processing.   Common exceptions include overflow  where the result fills more bits than are available in the register  loss of precision (because there  isn’t  room  to  store  the  necessary  number  of  decimal places)   or  an  attempt  to  divide  by  zero.   Exceptions  are typically  indicated  by  setting  a  flag  in  the  machine  status register.   
