310 ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange) is a series of standards used to identify simple characters (numbers  letters  etc. ) where each character is represented by a numerical code.  Each character is assigned a 7-bit code  whereby the bit has a minimum unit of data  0 (zero) or 1.  ASCII files can be created using simple text editors.  ASCII is a universal computer code for English letters and characters.  Computers store all information as binary numbers  regardless of what make or brand the computer is.  ASCII also refers to a protocol for copying files from one computer to another over a network  in which neither computer checks for any errors that might have been caused by static or other problems.  The difficulty with ASCII is twofold: 1) 2) all special fonts and elements used in a document typed using one software (e. g.   WordPerfect) will be lost when the file / document is saved in ASCII format and than reloaded by somebody else into WordPerfect (or even Microsoft Word for that matter)  and special characters such as those used in German cannot be transferred by ASCII (e. g.   ü is transferred as a blank and an ue must be typed instead).  Besides German  for many languages (e. g.   Chinese and Japanese)  this represents a real problem.  For the above reasons  a new source called Unicode was developed  .  As 8 bit codes only allow for 256 separate characters  a single 8-bit en coding is not suitable for all text requirements.  Even western alphabets have many ‘characters’  and once languages of China  and Braille are included there are many thousands of characters that are needed.  Of course  within a given domain  an implicit assumption of a particular character set could be made.  This leads to multiple 8-bit codes.  But it doesn’t work for those character sets where more than 256 characters are needed in the same context.  Both 7-bit ASCII and the various 8-bit extensions of it can be considered to be subsets of Unicode.  One does not need to know the above level of detail  but it is important to see why ASCII is insufficient  and why a standard is required for character encodings  .  
