Hi dctrhu , You asked two questions : 1 . Is there science to it ? Absolutely . 2 . Is it like a crime scene where you just have to infer something from certain clues and cues ? Definitely . ( Full disclosure : Doing digital photo analysis is a big part of my daily job . And I created the URL_1 web site as a means to get other people interested in this field . ) The scientific method is based on logical reasoning . There are two main types of logical reasoning : deductive and inductive . ( There are others , but these are the two main ones that people typically discuss . ) Deductive reasoning is based on causality . " A " leads to " B " leads to " C " . For example : Neal is typing on his computer . Neal 's computer is in his office . Therefore , Neal is in his office . Deductive reasoning is objective ( it does n't matter what you think ; these are the facts ) . In contrast , inductive reasoning is subjective and based on experience . This is often used for predicting , forecasting , and behavioral analysis -- situations with inherent uncertainty . ( " Did someone alter this picture ? " or " did a camera generate this ? " evaluate behaviors with inherent uncertainty . ) To quote a paragraph from URL_0 : > Inductive reasoning is the opposite of deductive reasoning . Inductive reasoning makes broad generalizations from specific observations . " In inductive inference , we go from the specific to the general . We make many observations , discern a pattern , make a generalization , and infer an explanation or a theory , " Wassertheil - Smoller told Live Science . " In science there is a constant interplay between inductive inference ( based on observations ) and deductive inference ( based on theory ) , until we get closer and closer to the ' truth , ' which we can only approach but not ascertain with complete certainty . " As an example , if you have ever broken a bone then you likely had an X - ray . The X - ray permits an analyst to view details that would otherwise go unseen . The X - ray is objective , not subjective . The X - ray system is based on deductive reasoning . ( We shoot X - rays into an arm and the bone absorbs / reflects differently than the soft tissues . This permits visualizing the bone without cutting open the arm . ) However , the X - ray image does not draw any conclusions about the subject matter . When the X - ray technician says , " I can not tell you that it is broken because a diagnosis requires a doctor " , then you enter the realm of the subjective . ( This is why you can ask for a " second opinion " -- opinions are subjective . ) Diagnosis are based on inductive reasoning . Continuing the example : arm hurts , X - ray shows a break in the bone , so the diagnosis is a broken arm . This conclusion is based on experience : I 've never seen a broken arm without a break visible in the X - ray , and I 've never seen an unbroken arm with a break in the X - ray , so it is very likely a broken arm . Most photo analysis methods act like an X - ray , permitting the visualization of otherwise - unseen attributes . The interpretation of the results requires a human to make a subjective determination based on specific factors ( inductive reasoning ) . In the case of digital photo forensics , it is usually difficult to prove that a picture is real or untampered . However , there are some telltale signs that can indicate alteration . These indicators can be used for deductive reasoning . ( E.g. , If it 's supposed to be directly from a Nikon camera and it 's missing Nikon metadata , then it is n't directly from a Nikon camera . ) We can also use these artifacts with inductive reasoning . For example , if the picture is supposed to be unaltered and one section has a significantly different noise signature and compression ratio and coloring than the rest of the picture , then it was likely altered . The word " likely " is predictive and requires inductive reasoning . Depending on the algorithm , we can even identify a confidence interval for the accuracy ( likeliness ) of the conclusion . For example : " I compared the noise signature to that of 1,000 camera original pictures covering 200 different similar camera models . None of the camera originals had noise patterns that varied by region . So my confidence is in excess of 99 % accuracy . " -- after showing that 1,000 pictures from 200 cameras is a good - enough sample size . Conclusively proving that a picture is real / unaltered can be difficult . ( E.g. , " I saw him take the picture with the camera and this picture came straight from the camera . " ) However , using inductive and deductive reasoning , we can rule out options . For example , if Adobe always leaves telltale artifacts and none are present , then we can rule out Adobe . Gimp leaves other artifacts , so we can rule that out . If we can rule out all of the common alteration methods , then we can conclude that it is likely real / unaltered . More often , we conclude with something like " based on the tests performed , there is no indication of tampering or alteration " . This does n't mean it is real ; it only means we did n't detect anything wrong . And if we have no reason to suspect sophisticated tampering outside of the scope of the tests performed , then we can induce that it is likely real / unaltered.