This is a very complicated topic , and the answer has been talked about literally for thousands of years . My explanation can not be complete , and it may not even be very good , but that is for you to decide . Analogies can give hints , but never be completely accurate for this . & nbsp ; I am a person . I exist . I am a being , in that I exist . As a person who exists , I know . I know myself . I know who I am . I know other things outside of myself . The things I know exist in my mind , even as they exist outside of my mind , in reality . As a person who exists and knows , I also will . I choose to do things with my knowing and being . I can make an act of will that may be internal to me , or external to me . In one person of myself , I exist , I know , and I will . I am a being , and a knower , and a willer . Each is distinct . Being and knowing are two very different things , and being and willing are two very different things , as are knowing and willing . A rock exists , but does not will or know . A person who used to exist may have their will continue to be exercised after they are dead . Knowledge can be expressed . It is captured and collected in books , videos , etc , but does not exercise any will . So I exist and know and will . Each of these aspects of me is fundamentally me , and also completely inseparable of me . If I were to stop knowing , or existing , or willing , I would no longer be me . These aspects that make up me are inseparable , but yet distinct . & nbsp ; So , now , lets relate this back to God . What is God ? What does Christianity teach that God is ? * God is eternal . * God is omnipotent , and omniscient . * God is love . * God is the maker . He is not made up of things , stuff , or parts . He is the one who caused stuff to come into being . So , if God is eternal , he must exist , and have being , for all eternity . That seems pretty straight forward , even though it is very , very difficult for me to comprehend or visualize someone just always existing , and not coming from somewhere else , or appearing , or having been caused to be . If God is omnipotent , and omniscient , by default , he KNOWS . He knows everything , by definition . This knowing proceeds from him being eternal , and encompassing all , and in proceeding from knowledge and being knowledge . Knowledge expressed ( and by definition , God expresses knowledge , see omnipotent , omniscient , and eternal ) is language , or the Word . Hence , the Word proceeds from being of knowledge . & nbsp ; Next , God is love . We 'll taking a small detour here for another explanation . What is love ? Spend some time with young children , and you will come to appreciate their points of view and marvel at the occasionally phenomenal and intuitive insights they have on life . They can not explain love , and they can not describe it , but they can tell what is and is not love , and they can certainly name examples of love in their lives . If you ask , they will tell you that they love their parents , or that their parents love them . In a religious education class I taught with my wife a number of years ago with a bunch of fourth graders , I asked them about love . They believed that saying you loved someone was a primary example of love , as was hugging them , or patting them on the back . Several even believed that being obedient was part of loving their parents . I asked if , instead of children , their parents had robots instead , and the robots would always say “ I love you , ” and give their parents hugs and be obedient and keep their rooms clean , would those robots love their parents ? Each of them said no . They could not explain why , since all the forms we talked about were there , but they said it was different . Something that they could not explain but that was a part of them , and was not a part of programmed machine who did those things by rote , was responsible for love , and without that something there could be no love . Those children were correct . What is missing is intent . Love requires an Act of Will . & nbsp ; If God is love , and love is an act of the will , then God must willfully love , perfectly , completely , and eternally . But how , if God is God , and before he made anything else , it was just God ? I love myself . That is fine and great . I love my wife . That is much , much better . It is bigger , and fuller , and richer . Those of you who have children love them also , and it is an even more complicated thing than loving your wife . If by definition God is love , then he already encompasses all that love is and can be . God loves himself , surely , but much , much more than that too . If love has to be an act of the will , and it is an eternal act of will by an eternal , omniscient , and omnipotent being , it ca n't be limited . God the Father is the being . God the Son proceeds from the Father in knowing , expressed in the Word . Between the two of them , they then will to love , and the love proceeds from them and to them in the Holy Spirit . All are God . All are distinct . All are eternal , and equal . They are the being , knowing , and willing ( loving ) God . & nbsp ; I do n't know if that helps or not , but that 's the best I can do , and I think as simple as I can make it.