Other great apes , and indeed other species do have consciousness or awareness of self . That is they can distinguish the self from the other , they know they have experiences that are unique and distinct from other individuals . One way that we have determined this is through the [ mirror test ] ( URL_0 ) . About half a dozen species have past the test , including humans who are about 18 months or older . However , its worth noting that this test is biased towards visual animals , and does n't work well for species that rely on other senses . Just because an animal fails the mirror test does not mean it lacks consciousness . Finally , language is not required for self - awareness . * * Long Answer : What makes humans unique ? * * Animals are complex beings , and scientists for the past few decades have come to understand that the divide between us and them is not black and white , but rather a continuum of shared abilities . Animals exhibit a lot of similar behaviours and can even do things that we ca n't do ( even on a cognitive level ) . They have morals ; they have emotions ; they make and modify tools ; they can solve multi - step problems ; they have culture and traditions ; they can lie and cheat ; they know when they are being treated unfairly ; they mourn the dead ; they have complex communication systems ; they feel empathy ; and some recognized themselves in a mirror and are able to distinguish self from other . So these aspects of intelligence and cognition , and very likely many other aspects that we have not fully explored , are not unique to humans . Given the complexity of other animals , it is very likely were are not the only species to have consciousness , that is to say other animals also have theory of mind . It may be more akin to the consciousness of a 3 - 5 year old , but none the less , they still know themselves from others . So what does make us unique ? What led to our unique kind of intelligence ? We know of some factors that contributed to our awareness and unique intelligence as compared to other living species . It is important to know that this is a very active area of study in many different disciplines ( psychology , biology , animal behaviour , psychiatry , physiology , anthropology , neurology , linguistics , genetics , archeology ... ) . * * * Traits we inherited from our distant ancestors . * * Obviously all species are a cumulation of inherited traits . Who we are today is largely due to who " we " were in the distant past . We inherited a strong tendency to be a very social species from our mammalian ancestry . Mammals are social beings , humans included . We inherited opposable thumbs from our early primate ancestors . Humans are not the only species with opposable thumbs so it is not a trait that is unique to our species . However , the inheritance of thumbs enabled us and the other primates to develop fine motor skills like precision grip . This enables us to manipulate objects , and make / modify tools . Humans also inherited an upright bipedal posture from our early ancestors . Humans are not the only bipedal species ( after all , all birds are bipedal ! ) but our upright posture has given us many advantages , namely that it frees our hands to do other tasks . * * * Brain / body size ratio * * is a somewhat useful indicator of how intelligence a species is . The correlation is decent among related mammal species , but it breaks down when applied to distantly related animals . " It underestimates intelligence in heavy animals like horses and overestimates small animals like mice and birds . Larger animals will typically also require larger brains simply to process and control the additional information that larger nervous system generates . You also have to consider what the animal 's brain has evolved for . Bird 's typically have very large brains for their body but may not be exceptionally smart . A lot of that large bird brain is used for flight calculations and is n't available for higher level processing . Fruit flies have enormous brains compared to their mass , but that brain is simply too small to have any real thought processes . Humans are highly intelligent because they have an extremely large brain for their normal body mass and that brain has evolved specifically to perform complex thought . " * * * Two cognitive traits thought to be unique to humans * * - * shared intentionality * and * cumulative culture * . Shared intentionality goes one step further than being able to solve problems as a group , it involves anticipating the needs of others and the situation in order to solve a common goal . This requires incredible foresight , flexibility , and problem solving skills . It requires an almost hyper - sociality group structure . We could n't stick 100 chimpanzees on a plane and expect it to land in one piece ... but you can stick 100 human strangers and all , for the most part , get along just fine . This level of cooperation is rarely seen among other animals ( save for the Eusocial insects , naked mole rats , and perhaps Callitrichid monkeys) ... my point is we have a shared intentionality that allows us to be hyper - social and cooperative . * Cumulative culture * goes beyond the cultures exhibited by other animals . Other animals have culture where [ non - essential ] traditions are passed on from one generation to the next and can be modified slowly over many generations . Humans also have traditions , but these are past on much more easily between individuals . Moreover , these traditions are quickly modified , almost unlimited times within a generation . We are able to rapidly build upon the ideas of others and modify these ideas to suit new problems . Moreover , our adults , as compared to the adults of other species , are much better at learning and retaining new skills or traditions . Generally speaking , the age old adage " you ca n't teach an old dog new tricks " applies well to the non - human animal kingdom . These two traits , * shared intentionality * and * cumulative culture * , led to the development of other aspects of our being which are unique ( e.g language ) . Everything else that we can do is just a happy by - product of these two traits : being able to go to the moon , or build a super dam , or create art , or think in the abstract , maths , industrial agriculture ... Those things are by - products of our level of cognition . Our uniqueness is derived from shared intentionality and cumulative culture plus a couple of random physical traits that we were lucky enough to inherit from our distant ancestors - a big brain , bipedalism , and opposable thumbs . We are not the only species with a large brain - to - body ratio , we are not the only bipedal species , and we are certainly not the only species with opposable thumbs - these are physical characteristics that we inherited from our distant primate ancestors . These traits built the foundation for what was to come . * * When exactly does consciousness begin in a life form that is capable of it ? * * First , it is n't like a light switch one day its off the next day it is on . It is a gradual change of the brain and central nervous system over time . We know that infant humans are born without a consciousness that this develops slowly from the time of birth over the course of many years , well into early childhood . For example , young children and toddlers ca n't lie . This is because they have yet to grasp the notion that other individuals have thoughts and ideas that are distinct from their own . They think everyone experiences and thinks what they do . But around the age of three the ability to lie begins to develop because they begin to understand that their thoughts and experiences are distinct . We know that some animals are also capable of deception and cheating - which is really interesting because among other observations it indicates to us that they have an understanding of self being distinct from other . There are other cognitive abilities that develop over time as well . For example , young infants can not pass the [ mirror test ] ( URL_0 ) . This ability develops around 18 m in humans , but deception not until later . So you begin to understand how two measures of self - identification develop at different times within humans . There are indeed some species that pass the mirror test - dolphins , many primates , birds like crows and pigeons , elephants ... do they have consciousness ? Well passing the mirror test seems to suggest that they do , but is their consciousness like ours ? How can it be different ? Its worth noting that the mirror test is biased towards species that use sight as their primary identifier . If you took an animal who relied more heavily on other senses and failed the mirror test it would n't exactly tell you much . That animal could easily pass another test , better suited to their abilities ( e.g. smell for rhinos ) . Many other cognitive abilities develop over the course of infancy - language , spatial skills , memory , tool use ... these all come together to form the conscious human . In other species other things may come together to form the conscious elephant , or the conscious chimpanzee . In nature there is more than one way to solve a problem , and the problem of " consciousness " has very likely been solved in different ways . So if we are just looking for animals that exhibit the traits we deem responsible for human consciousness then we might miss some that have other traits that are unique to theirs . We do know about a few traits that are unique to human consciousness that we have n't found in other species - shared intentionality and cumulative culture . I could go on , but this post is pretty long as it is , suffice to say that consciousness develops over the course of infancy in both humans and other conscious animals.