" Determine never to be idle... It is wonderful how much may be done if we are always doing" Do we accomplish more if we are always doing something, or does inactivity also serve a purpose? In my opinion I think we as people accomplish a lot if we are always doing something. One reason is because in Oder to do something or succeed in something you have to be doing something for that to happen. I feel like if people want something to get done you have made a change and stay determined just like what Thomas Jefferson said in his quote and that's very important to keep in mind when you are trying to achieve something and you want to make a difference.

In Thomas Jefferson's quote he says something that really makes you think about how in society today how people deal with some things. It makes you wonder if people are doing the most they can to accomplish something, and it also makes you think to yourself if you as your own person are doing whatever is it you can to accomplish your goals in life. I feel like some people don't do anything to try to accomplish the set goals they have for themselves, and they expect for that goal that they are waiting for to come to them instead of them working for that accomplishment. It shouldn't be that way, but some people think life is like that also when there is a major issue going on in the world some people think that doing nothing is okay. When people witness a problem some people decide not to do anything and the issue will go away when maybe that's not the case in some situations.

There are people that are dedicated to what they want and will always do something to accomplish or achieve whatever it is they need to achieve and I think that is perfect because it just shows that you are determined to do whatever you can to get what you want in life. Xeople that are very determined achieve so much that it inspires others and makes them feel like they need to do something, so they can start achieving want they want in life. I feel like that's very important because if you don't do something to accomplish what you want then nothing is going to happen in your life and I know there are people that don't do anything, and they have nothing good going for them.

I feel like Thomas Jefferson was the type of person to stay determined and focused on the goals he wanted to make. He set goals, and he made them happen he made things happen for our country and all that happened because he was determined and focused, and he wanted to do something, so he can accomplish what he wanted. Everything in life you have to work for it and do something about it. It doesn't just land in your lap everything you do requires you to work for it and the end result will be that you accomplished everything you worked hard for. For example, I feel like a lot of issues in this world could be solved if people would do something people wouldn't be running for there lives because there is a war going on in there country if somebody would do something about it. There wouldn't be so much negativity and so much hatred if somebody would just make a change.

My over all conclusion about this quote that Thomas Jefferson wrote is that it is important for people to actually do something and work hard and achieve there goal. When you put your all into something your hard work pays off, and you finally accomplished something and that's all that matters. I feel like what message Thomas Jefferson is trying to give is that life is always going to be hard no matter what, but you always have to push yourself and accomplish what needs to be done. When you do that good things come in return, and it does serve purpose in you life it always has and always will. I think that is what Thomas Jefferson is trying to say in his motivating quote, and it really inspired me and I hope it inspires others as well.