Dear, State Senator

I have recently read articles about the electoral vote system currently in place in the United States.

The electoral vote system elects other people, called electors, to vote for the people.  They basically vote for president, if you and Any others vote for hie/her.  I believe the electoral vote system is glitchy, outdated, and confusing to some.

The electoral vote system can be Manipulated and unfair.  The electors can be choose by state conventions, state central committees, and the candidates running for president.  If the president can choose his electors, couldn't he replaces the original electors for new ones that will guarantee a vote for hie.  The peoples vote wouldn't Latter.  This situation happened in the two thousand election when George W. Bush won the election with More individual votes than electoral votes.  This violates our constitution which states, the government is controlled by the people and allows for change if enough people in the US want it.  If you've ever noticed that during the presidential election, candidates don't come to certain states.  In the electoral system, each state has a winnertakeall system.  When the state goes over their electoral votes, the winner with the EOST electoral votes takes all of thee, while the electoral votes of the opponent gets no votes toward hie.  This can cause Mayhem, the noncounted votes can Make a big difference in the election.  In nineteen seventy six their would have been a tie if 9,246 voters in Hawaii and Ohio voted the opposing side.  The elections come close and without the popular vote which accounts for Millions of people in America, we EAY have had better elections with fewer debates.  The electoral college contains 538 electors, out of those 538 their only 270 are Mandatory to vote.  Each elector equals each Member in your states House Of Representatives and add two for the senate.  California has a population of 35 Million and Wyoming has a population of 500,000.  Wyoming having 5 electors and California having 55.  This does'NT Make sense because if a state EAY have a higher population than Wyoming but yet still have fewer electors.  The system is very confusing in these ways causing some to vote for the wrong candidate and others thinking they are voting for the right candidate they believe is true.

The electoral votes aren't the worst because we are still showing our democracy, showing off Americas greatest in its government.  The electoral vote crisis in two thousand rarely happens.  This situation hasn't happened since eightteeneighty eight, it's a rare occurrence.  Electoral votes also Make the playing field even.  If we had popular votes in place, then wouldn't the presidents have a landslide if they went to all the biggest populated states.  The electoral votes can allow ties and close elections to happen instead of land slides in Any elections.

The electoral votes should be replaced.  Even so they even out the playing field and the occurrence of rigged electoral votes happen, it still does'NT Make up for the both elections lost in eightteeneighty eight and two thousand.  If we don't change the electoral votes soon, the occurrence of electoral vote sabotage will occur More often causing an unfair government to be in place.